Holi is very famous festival of the colours celebrated every year in the month of Phalgun by the people of India with big joy.
It is the festival of lots of fun and frolic activities especially for the children who take part in the celebration a week before and lasts a week after the date of Holi festival. 
Holi festival is celebrated by the people of Hindu religion all over the India especially in North India in the month of March.
There are many stories and legends behind celebrating the Holi in India for years. 
It is the festival of great importance and significance. 
According to the Hindu mythology it is considered as Holi celebration was started a long ago from the ancient time when Holika was burned in the fire while trying to kill her own brothers son in the fire. 
It is considered as there was a demon king called Hiranyakashyap father of little Prahlad. 
He had tried to kill his own son in the fire when Prahlad denied to worship his father as Prahlad was a great devotee of the Lord Vishnu. 
When Hiranyakashyap failed in many of his strategies to kill Prahlad he ordered his own sister Holika to sit in fire by having Prahlad in her lap as she was booned by the God for never getting harmed by the fire.
However this strategy was also became failed as little Prahlad was the devotee of the Lord Vishnu and he was saved by his God. 
Holika was died in the fire and Prahlad was saved. 
From that day people of Hindu religion started celebrating the Holi festival every year. 
In the evening of a day before the colourful Holi people make a heap of woods and dung cakes on the cross roads and do fire in the heap in the myth of burning Holika and celebrate Holika Dahan ceremony. 
Some people make round and round of the burning Holika and worship to get blessed with the prosperity and good health by burning all the sins and diseases in the fire. 
There is also a tradition in Hindu religion of burning wastes of the whole body massage with mustard seed paste in the fire in the myth of burning all the skin problems and get good health for the whole year.
In the next morning of the Holika Dahan people celebrate a colourful Holi by getting together at one place and on the roads. 
Colourful Holi preparations start a week before the main date of the Holi festival. 
People become highly enthusiastic especially children of the home who starts buying different colours a week before the date. 
Even they start playing colours with their friends neighbours and relatives with pitchakri and small balloons. 
In the morning people start roaming to each others home by having abeer and colours to play. 
They apply abeer to the forehead of each other hug each other and celebrate eating various delicious dishes like gujhiya sweets pani puri dahi bade chips and so many other yummy dishes at each others home all through the day.

 
