The United States which has long sought Japanese action to stimulate its economy appears to be satisfied Tokyos latest package is a major development and allows leading industrial nations to reaffirm their agreement to stabilize currencies.
    
Monetary sources said they believed that US Treasury Secretary James Baker considered Tokyos package announced yesterday to be a major stimulation of the Japanese economy.
    
But yesterdays statement by seven leading industrial powers endorses the yens rise from around 153 to the dollar the level at the February 22 Paris Accord to about 145 today.
    
The supplementary budget worth about 34 billion dlrs was announced by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party on the eve of Miyazawas departure for Washington to attend yesterdays meetings of leading industrial nations.
    
In a strongly worded statement terming the Japanese action extraordinary and urgent the meeting reaffirmed the Paris Accord by noting that current exchange rates are within ranges broadly consistent with fundamentals or economic reality.
    
The Group of Seven the United States Japan West Germany France Britain Italy and Canada therefore repeated their willingness to continue close cooperation to foster exchange rate stability.
    
The cooperation agreement has resulted in concerted central bank intervention of 8 billion to 9 billion dlrs to halt the dollars fall. 

While relatively unsuccessful the scale of intervention between so many nations is unprecedented in recent years.
       
West Germany whose currency has not risen anything like the yen since the Paris Agreement appears from the face of yesterdays statement to have won acceptance from other countries that its exchange rate is acceptable.
    
Bonns finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg argues that major currency shifts needed to remedy the huge imbalance between West Germany and Japans trade surpluses and Americas trade deficit have already taken place.
    
No mention was made however of the US commitment to cut the budget deficit even though it is implied in the reafffirmation of Paris.
   
European nations and Japan believe deficit cuts are essential to curbing the record US trade shortfall that reached nearly 170 billion dlrs last year.  

Monetary sources said that privately West Germany welcomed the rise in the yen against the dollar while its own currency remained relatively stable against the US unit.
    
Bonn and other European nations worry that once the weak dollar blunts Tokyos export drive to the United States the Japanese monolith will concentrate on European markets.
    
The ministers meanwhile also continued talks on making their policy coordination more binding and one Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson said good progress was made.
    
Wilson said they will meet before the June Economic Summit to prepare a report for the leaders of the seven nations.
    
The United States and France backed by the International Monetary Fund want the seven to agree on ranges or norms for a limited number of economic objectives such as growth inflation monetary conditions trade balances and current account balances.
    
Sharp deviations from these guidelines would result in consultations between the countries on whether corrective action should be required.
   
But the inclusion of currencies as one of the objectives has Bonn and London worried monetary sources say because it implies Washington is moving in the direction of target zones.
    
The sources said the Reagan administration unsuccessfully sounded out its allies on a system of target zones to limitcurrency fluctuations just before the February meeting.
    
The concept is a much more rigid one than the secret ranges of the Paris Accord and would mark a sharp departure from the relatively free currency markets of recent years.