COLOMBIA OPTIMISTIC ON COFFEE QUOTAS
    repeat from late yesterday
    MEDELLIN, Colombia, June 28 - Colombia considers conditions
are favourable for reestablishing coffee export quotas, but
Brazil believes that difficulties remain with the United
States, coffee leaders from the two countries said.
    "Colombia considers that if the principal International
Coffee Organisation (ICO) members adopt a realistic and
objective approach, it will be possible to find a solution at
the next meeting in London," Colombian Coffee Federation
president Jorge Cardenas said at a coffee symposium.
    The symposium has raised hopes that producers would find a
common position on quota distribution before a September ICO
plenary meeting in London when quotas will be the main item on
the agenda.
    Cardenas, representing the world's second largest coffee
producer, said all producer countries as well as consumer
countries including the United States, Japan and the European
Community had expressed an interest in reestablishing quotas.
    However, the President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute
Jorio Dauster told Reuters that problems remained between the
United States and Brazil.
    "By the end of the February meeting it was shown that 85 pct
of the producer countries were with Brazil," he said.
    "However, up to now I have not seen fundamental changes in
their positions."
    ICO talks on quotas broke down in February largely due to a
conflict between the world's main producer Brazil and main
consumer the United States.
    ICO director Alexandre Beltrao said at the symposium that
conditions were right to discuss reestablishing export quotas.
He said the strong views of Brazil and United States expressed
in February had abated.
    "Confirmation of the bumper crop in Brazil is good for
prices and compels countries to seek agreement on basic quotas,"
Beltrao told Reuters.
    "Brazilian authorities have said the crop for 1987/88 coffee
season could be 35.2 mln 60 kg bags," he added.
    Beltrao spoke of the presence of new factors that work
against the stability of the ICO, created 25 years ago.
    "Foreign debt and as a result worse economic, political and
social conditions make the adoption of a national and
international coffee strategy more difficult," he said.
    The ICO board would meet in July to discuss these matters.